Write a bash shell script, called showpath, that satisfies the following requirements:
1. Usage: showpath [ filename ]
2. showpath displays the permissions of a filename and all the directories in the filename's path. showpath will also
show other information about the filename and containing directories, as the cursor is moved up and down the list of file
and directory names.
3. showpath will accept one argument, the name of a file or directory, including the path if required.
4. If there is no argument specified, then the current directory will be the default filename.
5. If there is more than one argument specified, there will be an error message and the script terminated (exit status 1).
6. If the specified filename is not a valid, existing file or directory, there will be an error message and the script terminated
(exit status 1).
7. Please see the examples for the exact display format, and match this format as closely as possible. Note that
the screen is cleared before the output is displayed. There are 3 spaces between the permission groups, and between the permission groups and the filename. There is one space between the permissions within a permission group, and between the file type and the permissions.
8. Ignore the situation of a very deep directory structure, which would require a multi­screen display.
9. Ignore the situation of a very long directory name, which would wrap to the next line.
10. On initial display, the cursor will be on the first character of the specified (or default) filename. Information for this file
will also be displayed.
11. There is a line showing the valid keys accepted during execution of the showpath command, on the second line from
the bottom of the terminal window, regardless of the terminal window size used.
12. After the initial display, the valid keys available are the following. Note that these are single­key options with no "enter"
key required after any of them, and that they are lower case:
'u' (up) will move the cursor to the first character of the directory name above the current line. Also, information for the new directory level will be displayed, instead of the previous directory level. This key will have no affect if the cursor is already on the top­most filename, which will be the root.
'd' (down) will move the cursor to the first character of the file or directory name below the current line. Also, information for the new file or directory level will be displayed, instead of the previous directory level. This key will have no affect if the cursor is already on the bottom­most filename, which will be the specified (or default) filename.
"q" will terminate the showpath script. Note that the screen is not cleared, and the command prompt will appear
on the bottom line of the terminal window.
13. Any keys entered, other than the valid keys above, will be ignored.
14. "Flashing" of the screen, during cursor movement, is not acceptable. For example, when the cursor is moved up or
down, you may not redraw the entire screen. You must eliminate the flashing, making the program more pleasant to
use, by only redrawing the parts of the screen that are necessary.
15. If showpath produced full­screen output, it must end with an exit status of 0 (zero). If there was an error, then there is
no full­screen output, and the exit status should be 1 (one).
16. Ensure that your script is self­contained in one script file, called showpath. Limit "sed" and "awk" to single­line
commands with no separate script files required.
17. Don't do any argument verification or any processing in showpath other than that specified above.
